For this assignment, I used Tableau's visualizations, dashboards and story features to create a statistical, demographic and geographic analysis of Citibike's Jersey City program from 2018-2020. This dataset was chosen to capture whatever anomalies the 2020 pandemic may have brought as well as to prevent Tableau Public from trying to parse too large a file.
  The first phenomenon that I sought to understand through visualizations was a breakdown of the peak usage of Citibike, from peak months and years down to the hourly peaks of the day. First, I created a chart that revealed that Citibike's peak months in JC last from June until October, with its lowest season from February to April. Noticing that there was such a strong seasonal difference in ridership, I charted the most popular hours to begin a Citbike trip with a filter for months. I found that although the total ridership changes, the peak hours remain consistent at 8 AM and 5-6 PM, indicating Citibike sees a lot of use as a tool for commuting to and from work.
    Next, I analyzed the demographics of Citibike's users. Citibike's users have predominately been year long subscribers throughout the data set, although there was both a drop in ridership and an increase in single-time customers in 2020. However, Citbike's gradually growing female ridership has increased steadily even through this drop in overall customers. I also uncovered the fact that Citibike's customers cannot possibly be recording their ages accurately, as there are a good number of ages in the 1800's and a huge spike at 1969. This made binning demographic information by age impossible.
    Third, I looked at the top 10 start and end stations to see if there were disparities. Greater mismatch could lead to a need for a bike-shuttling system to provide bikes where they're needed, or focus repair stations at overused rental kiosks. What I found was that the most popular start and end station were both the Grove St kiosk, although it had thousands more returns than rentals. It may be that the Grove St. location is a convenient end point for trips starting throughout the city, but it may be necessary to unload excess bikes back to under-returned kiosks elsewhere. The bottom 10 return stations had much lower usage than the bottom 10 start stations, a phenomena caused by Citibike customers renting in NJ and returning their bikes in NYC, diffusing the rates of return to NJ's locations. 
    The maps that I created feature a toggle to display each year of the dataset, and points that are sized and colored based on their total uses for the year selected. Through the maps, we can see that Citibike has mostly set up its stations in more affluent ZIP codes, and could stand to spread out their kiosks farther to truly integrate into the city at an infrastructure level. 
